Add `Community/Projects/osu!arcade` (#14697)
ppy/osu-wiki: wiki/Community/Projects/osu!arcade/en.md

# osu!arcade

> The **osu!arcade** was a prototype arcade machine created by ::{ flag=AU }:: [peppy](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2). It contained custom-made hardware and a built-in touchscreen running a touch-based version of osu!.

Reviewer: maybe "custom enclosure" not hardware? sounds like i made custom chips for it, which wasn't really the case.

> Although it has *arcade* in its name, features typical for arcade machines like coin slots had not been considered when developing the prototype.

Reviewer: they actually had. i even bought an RFID reader to test with. just never ended up getting to it or having the need to really.

## First prototype

::: Infobox
![osu!arcade machine at 2010's Wai-con](img/2010_Wai-con.jpg "osu!arcade machine at 2010's Wai-con")
:::

> For the [Wai-con](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wai-Con) anime convention in Perth in January 2010, peppy wanted to create a booth for osu! with the goal to make osu! more known in the local community.[^wai-con] With only a few days to prepare everything before the event, the first prototype for an arcade machine was spontaneously built. The prototype was a slanted box with external speakers at the side which used a modified version of osu!(stable) as the game.[^wai-con-video][^kingking9-profile]

Reviewer: where does this information come from? i don't remember only having a few days. also it wasn't really a booth, just coexisted in the gaming area.

Author: From your forum post [osu!arcade at Wai-con 2010](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/23392?n=1):

> [...] the system was looking very ready for its debut last weekend (after some very rushed last minute preparations)
> ...
> As the hardware unit used was a relatively rushed effort, [...]

Perhaps I read too much into this. I am going to edit the text according to your feedback.

> For the [Wai-con](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wai-Con) anime convention in Perth in January 2010, peppy wanted to create a booth for osu! with the goal to make osu! more known in the local community.[^wai-con] With only a few days to prepare everything before the event, the first prototype for an arcade machine was spontaneously built. The prototype was a slanted box with external speakers at the side which used a modified version of osu!(stable) as the game.[^wai-con-video][^kingking9-profile]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For the [Wai-con](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wai-Con) anime convention in Perth in January 2010, peppy wanted to create a booth for osu! with the goal to make osu! more known in the local community.[^wai-con] With only a few days to prepare everything before the event, the first prototype for an arcade machine was spontaneously built. The prototype was a slanted box with external speakers at the side, running a modified version of osu!(stable).[^wai-con-video][^kingking9-profile]
```

Throughout the 2-day convention, peppy tried to get feedback by watching both beginners as well as veterans of [Ouendan](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Osu!_Tatakae!_Ouendan) and [Elite Beat Agents](/wiki/iNiS_games#elite-beat-agents) play the game.

> Many convention visitors wanted to try out the arcade machine, so much so that at most times it was hard to see the screen due to the constant stream of people gathered around the cabinet. Overall, the community acclaimed the arcade machine, although some people criticised that playing too much could lead to sore fingers.[^sore-fingers]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Many convention visitors wanted to try out the arcade machine, so much so that at most times it was hard to see the screen due to the constant stream of people gathered around the cabinet. Overall, the community acclaimed the arcade machine, although some people pointed out that playing too much could lead to sore fingers.[^sore-fingers]
```

or

```suggestion
Many convention visitors wanted to try out the arcade machine, so much so that at most times it was hard to see the screen due to the constant stream of people gathered around the cabinet. Overall, the community acclaimed the arcade machine, although it was also criticised for potentially causing sore fingers.[^sore-fingers]
```

## Second prototype

::: Infobox
![Second prototype](img/prototype_v2.jpg "Second prototype")
:::

> Around early to mid 2012, a second prototype was developed.[^tweet-1][^tweet-2] It featured two speakers which were integrated into the cabinet. The touchscreen used a precise optical-based system.[^optical] Furthermore, an [Arduino](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arduino) [microcontroller](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Microcontroller) controlled LED lights that would flash according to the music.[^music-light][^design-documents] Support for local multiplayer between two arcades was added in August 2012.[^local-multi]

Reviewer: weird to mention speakers being integrated without mentioning the oriinal unit had an external system?

Author: In the first section, I explicitely mention that the speakers of the first prototype were external. What would you like to be changed?

> The prototype was showcased to the public running [osu!stream](/wiki/osu!stream), an osu! variant designed for touch devices, at multiple events such as the "Red Flag LAN Fest" in Perth.[^rflan][^oneup]

Reviewer: probably worth metnioning multiplayer was added to osu!stream just for the arcade, including a custom server and realtime synced cursors (not present in any other osu! variant).

## Discontinuation

> In the following years, the osu!arcade project was abandoned due to a shift in focus on the development of osu!(stable) and later osu!(lazer). Additionally, the prototype was never mass-produced as the costs for creating a new cabinet were too expensive.

Reviewer: i would not call it abandoned. it was a hobby project from the start.

where was it mentioned about cost?

Author: From [this YouTube comment](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LQjYwpDnBec&lc=UgyqSDvx465RZdZqSE14AaABAg):

<img width="1832" height="454" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d801742b-c67f-460a-940a-8b65a2fe8a71" />

To be fair, *ordering a cabinet* is of course much more costly than just creating a bunch of units and presenting them at conventions and other events.

Feel free to tell me if you want me to change this paragraph.

> In the following years, the osu!arcade project was abandoned due to a shift in focus on the development of osu!(stable) and later osu!(lazer). Additionally, the prototype was never mass-produced as the costs for creating a new cabinet were too expensive.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the following years, the osu!arcade project was abandoned due to a shift in focus on the development of osu!(stable) and later osu!(lazer). Additionally, the prototype was never mass-produced as the costs for creating a new cabinet were too high.
```

(note i didn't see peppy's review when reviewing, but either way)

## Second prototype

::: Infobox
![Second prototype](img/prototype_v2.jpg "Second prototype")
:::

Around early to mid 2012, a second prototype was developed.[^tweet-1][^tweet-2] It featured two speakers which were integrated into the cabinet. The touchscreen used a precise optical-based system.[^optical] Furthermore, an [Arduino](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arduino) [microcontroller](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Microcontroller) controlled LED lights that would flash according to the music.[^music-light][^design-documents]

The prototype was showcased to the public running [osu!stream](/wiki/osu!stream), an osu! variant designed for touch devices, at multiple events such as the "Red Flag LAN Fest" in Perth.[^rflan][^oneup]

In August 2012, support for local multiplayer was added to osu!stream specifically for the arcade.[^local-multi] Included with the multiplayer was a custom server and real-time synced cursors, an exclusive feature not present in any other osu! variant.[^multi-arcade]

> Later that same year, peppy experimented with support for converting [osu!](/wiki/Game_mode/osu!) [beatmaps](/wiki/Beatmap) to osu!stream, so a more diverse collection of maps could be played on the arcade cabinet.[^conversion]

Author: ```suggestion
Later that same year, peppy experimented with support for converting [osu!](/wiki/Game_mode/osu!) [beatmaps](/wiki/Beatmap) to osu!stream, so a more diverse range of maps could be played on the arcade cabinet.[^conversion]
```
:thinking:

Reviewer 3: I think this reads a bit better, yeah
